
Refactoring a method name means renaming it everywhere it is used without changing the logic of the program.
VSCode provides tools like Rename Symbol, Search & Replace, and Code Navigation to make this safe and productive.

🛠 Methods for Refactoring
1. Rename Symbol (Preferred)

Best when your Ruby project is set up with a language server (e.g., Ruby LSP).

Steps:

Place your cursor on the method name (e.g., add_numbers).

Press F2 (or right-click → Rename Symbol).

Enter the new name (e.g., sum).

Press Enter → VSCode updates the definition and all references.

 Safer than global search because it only renames code symbols, not comments or unrelated text.

2. Search & Replace

Best when you want full control over all matches.

Steps:

Open global search with Ctrl + Shift + F (Windows/Linux) or Cmd + Shift + F (Mac).

Search for the old method name (e.g., add_numbers).

Click the small arrow next to the search box to open the Replace field.

Type the new method name (e.g., sum).

Use one of the replace options:

Replace All in All Files → replaces everywhere in the project.

Replace in One File → hover over the file name and click replace.

Replace One Occurrence → expand matches, replace individually.

Always review matches first to avoid renaming text inside comments or strings unintentionally.

 Code Navigation for Productivity
 Go to Definition (F12)

Jump directly from a method call to where it is defined.

Example: From calc.add_numbers → VSCode jumps to def add_numbers.

Benefit: Saves time searching across files.

Find All References (Shift + F12)

Shows every place a method is used in your project.

Benefit: Confirms you renamed all references during refactor.

Example Before and After

Before:

class Calculator
  def add_numbers(a, b)
    a + b
  end
end

calc = Calculator.new
puts calc.add_numbers(2, 3)


After (renamed to sum):

class Calculator
  def sum(a, b)
    a + b
  end
end

calc = Calculator.new
puts calc.sum(2, 3)

 Benefits of Using VSCode Tools

Confidence: No missed references.

Speed: Jump instantly to definitions or usages.

Accuracy: Avoids accidental replacements in comments or documentation.